THE BOOK

Chapter I
A change in the wind

The sun was barely rising over the hillside making the dew on every Longhorn leaf shine with thousands of colors. The Longhorn plant started shivering and stretching towards the lifegiving rays of warmth. The forest was still lightly asleep without a single vibration of sound.
Nearby the magnificent Trystfire birds started to peak out of their nests, scouting for their first pray of the day, when they suddenly spotted something cloaked in a green and grayish clothing moving silently through the forest under them. They knew better than heading out for their hunt now and hid back in their nests.
The figure moved through the forest with great care and precision avoiding making the slightest sound. In the eyes of a normal human the movement would look quite strange almost like a dance between the flourishing plants and bushes. The figure was Alfred.
Alfred lived in the Galdor Forest; he was one of the Elysterians, a woodland people living in utter balance with nature. There was not many left of his kind, they used to be a bountiful people before all the great forests of Heithron started to shrivel away. Alfred was just a young man who soon was about to see his 28th summer.
He continued his dance trough the forest and gently pulled out a leather flask from under his cloak. When he arrived at the hillside, he kneeled to gather dew from the leaves of the Longhorn plant, a tedious but important task. The Longhorn plants excreted a sweet sticky mass which got absorbed by the dew, creating a nourishing and energizing liquid. After the leather flask was filled to the brim, he placed it back in his belt and headed back towards his village.
After thirty minutes of travel he heard a noise, a noise he had never heard in these woods before. He instantly knew he had to take a closer look, a disturbance in the forest was never to be taken lightly. He silently moved towards the noise, a pulsating empty noise, like a gentle beat on hollow wood. Alfred was getting close to the source of this disturbance and starting to move trough a patch of dense bushes to see what the noise was about. Suddenly he halted all movement, still hidden in the bushes he could see an opening in the dense forest and in the center of it an ancient tree. The tree looked almost dead, lifeless with its long gray leaves hanging down to the ground. The gray leaves surrounded the three and made it impossible to see inside.
Alfred knew the rules, inspect and report back to the elders, never go up against something unknown without determining the situation first. But the elders would never let him participate in the investigation, they would tell him to stay in his hut and let the hunters deal with the matter, like always. They looked down on him, they said he was too strange, too different.
Ever since his father disappeared all those summers ago, he had been different. Rather than working in his assigned group as expected he roamed the forest, going further and further every time. Two summers ago, he stood at the eastern border of the forest, looking into the plainlands. He wanted more than anything else to go out there and leave the forest behind to search for his father, but he could never leave his mother and sister behind.
Now when looking at the gray leaves of this mysterious tree, swinging gently in the slight breeze he decided to take an even closer look. The hollow beating sound grew stronger as he moved towards the leaves.
With a slow movement of his hand, he pushed the leaves to the side and slipped in under them. The light became dimmer and colder when the leaves closed behind him. He looked at the stem of the tree, it expanded and retracted like it was breathing. The sound now grew even louder, beating like the heart inside Alfred himself. The grass around the stem was brown and dark, nothing like Alfred had seen before. He went around the stem of the tree and discovered a small hole in the ground just underneath one of the roots with strange, pulsating rays emerging from it. The rays continually changed colors trough red, blue, brown, white, purple and back to red again.
Alfred laid down on the ground and tried to get a look inside the hole, but the rays was too bright for him to see anything. He decided to stick his left hand inside, maybe he could feel what was hiding there. Immediately his hand felt heavy and he started to feel a burning sensation. He pulled his hand out and in his palm, he held an orb, pulsating like a heart.
The sound stopped, and he could not hear anything, not even the breeze who earlier had played so gently with the long leaves of the tree. It suddenly appeared as the whole world had stopped for a brief moment. He felt the urgent need to protect this glowing orb and reached in to put it under his cloak. In a bright flash the orb spun out of Alfred’s hand and straight into his chest. Alfred felt an immense pain like thousand knives trying to cut him open, he tried to scream but no sound escaped his lips.
The orb started to melt, the burning sensation was no longer just a sensation, it truly burnt when the bright liquid of the orb streamed down his chest like rivers down a mountain. Alfred fell to the ground and was looking up in the branches of the old tree, not able to move or speak. The orb was almost melted down to shiny liquid, the liquid burned down in his skin creating a pattern on Alfred’s torso. The pain become excruciating, but then the it all ended. Alfred was no longer conscious .
Alfred woke up to the sound of cracking wood, he opened his eyes to see that the leaves of the old tree was starting to fall off. A branch fell next to him and he could see the sun emerge through the hole it left. When the sunlight hit Alfred’s body the previously looming light under the branches got replaced with thousands of colors, apparently coming from his own body. He sat up in the grass and looked down at his chest and saw a circle, burnt into his skin right outside of where his heart was. It looked like a spring of water coming out and flowing into rivers across his upper body. The rivers had carved out his skin where they traveled, like water through a valley.
He could feel them pulsating along with his own heartbeat, he closed his eyes and felt an energy flowing from the circle on his chest trough the rivers down his stomach and around to his back, over his shoulders, down on the underside of his arms and into small pool like circles similar to the one on his chest, ending in his palms. It reflected the sunlight, much like diamonds and bathed the branch ceiling in an abundance of colors.
Another branch came loose and fell to the ground, Alfred could feel the ground shaking and stood up. He could hear deep rumbling from the hole where he had found the orb, suddenly water started to burst out of the hole. The roots of the old tree could no longer withstand the pressure, ripping up the ground beneath it and toppling the tree.
The water much like the liquid on Alfred’s body carved out rivers in the ground, creating seven different streams quickly branching out trough to forest floor. Alfred stood there without a single thought on his mind. He gradually got his focus back and started to process all that had happened.
The rivers started to make their way into the surrounding landscape, growing in size and power as they moved further. In the flash of a bird’s wing Alfred realized that one of the rivers where heading towards his village. He had to warn his tribe, at rate of the rivers expansion it would soon be large enough to wipe most of the village out with it.
He started running along it as he saw the river dragged stones and large trees with it, building up its already immense force. He ran as fast as he could, faster than he had ever run in his whole life. He felt the breeze in his back, but it was picking up speed fast, no longer just a breeze. The wind was pushing him forward and Alfred felt lighter by the minute.
Alfred had now passed the angry head of the river, and it grew smaller and smaller behind him as he ran to save the lives of his tribe. A trip that usually takes him 3 hours now only took 30 minutes until he finally saw the edge of his village. He wrapped his cloak around him to conceal the pulsating liquid now embedded in his upper body as he entered the village, sprinting for the elder council’s hut.
Outside the council´s hut two guards stopped Alfred from entering, telling him to state his business with the council. Alfred, who was out of breath, stared at the two guards, standing there so naively without knowing what was to come. After regaining his breath he said: “The end is coming, a giant river is heading this way as we speak, and I can´t stand here with you two morons wasting my time. I need to speak with the elders now!”. The guards looked at each other and laughed, one of them turned to Alfred and responded harshly: “We have had enough of your nonsense, you have always been a strange outcast, but this is over the line even for you.”. Alfred felt an anger pulsating from inside waiting to burst out of him. The guards placed their hands on him and started pushing him away from the entrance. Alfred grabbed their arms to resist when suddenly the guards screamed out in pain. Alfred’s hands had burned through their leather braces and into their skin. The guards immediately let go of him and looked upon him in terror.
Alfred still baffled about what had happened ceased the moment and busted through the door into elder council’s hut. He ran up to the high seats of the elders and faced the elder leader. The elder leader, Taigan gazed at him and said: “How dare you enter this hall in this manner! We should have made you an outcast the day your father disappeared from his duties.”. Alfred stared at him angrily and felt the urge to apply his newfound powers to finally prove that they could no longer treat him like waste. He barely managed to contain his anger and said: “A vast river is heading towards this village as we speak, and it will tear apart anything in its way.”.
Taigan looked at him in disbelief and laughed, “A river? Heading this way? Have you finally become mad boy?” he said with a smirk on his face. Alfred raised his voice and shouted: “The river will come and if you don´t believe me you will be making a huge mistake!”. The members of the elder council looked at each other and laughed, everyone except Haldar who had always looked out for Alfred and his family ever since Alfred’s father disappeared.
Taigan narrowed his eyes and stared at Alfred, “Guards, apprehend this lunatic and place him under arrest. We can´t listen to more lies and dishonesty!”. Alfred felt defeated and heartbroken, he knew that this would be the end of the village and his family. Several guards appeared and took him away to an underground holding cell.
After he was locked up the guards left, everything felt silent until Alfred heard footsteps coming down the wooden stairs. It was Haldar, maybe he would be able to assist Alfred. Haldar approached the cell door holding the keys in his hand, he looked at Alfred and asked: “Son, is what you say true?”. Alfred looked into his eyes and Haldar could see the sorrow and despair in Alfred’s eyes. Haldar unlocked the cell door and said: “Come with me, we have to rescue your family.”. The two of them left the cell and snuck out of the elder council´s hut trough a backdoor and into some nearby bushes. From there they went around the village to a small hut made from dirt and straw. Alfred opened the door and they went inside.
It´s early in the morning and Alfred just left to gather food and dew for breakfast. Samielle his younger sister and his mother Luciel was still sleeping in their beds. It was a simple hut, made from dirt and straw with growing grass covering the outside walls and roof.
This was a special day, Samielle´s birthday, she was finally turning 24 the age when youngsters become a part of the tribe and gets their first assignment from the elder council. She woke up just after Alfred left, she had barely slept last night the thoughts had spun in her head wondering what her first assignment for the tribe would be. Her biggest wish was to become a guardian, watching over the borders at the very edge of the forest.
Since she was just a little girl, travelers had told her stories about the great beyond, outside the Galdor forest. They told her about all the different races and creatures they had encountered on their travels. She always listened with great interest when they told her about Xerraa the capital of Felgstra. In the very center of Heithron, the very continent of the last migration. An older traveler once told her about the huge markets of Xerraa and the immense golden walls surrounding the city. The grand market is where all cultures meet and the place Samielle wishes to see most in the world.
If she gets assigned the guardian role, she will be able to talk to all travelers and merchants passing through the forest of Galdor. Maybe she could even go with them some time and leave the forest behind.
Her whole life has led to this very moment, and she found it impossible to sleep that night with all those thoughts rushing through her head. Finally, the day had come, the day she had been waiting for so long.
She leapt out of her bed and looked around the hut, her brother had left, and she was glad to not see him there. She loved her brother, but when he got picked for his gathering assignment 4 summers ago, he had not been him selves since. He also wanted to become a guardian, not to eventually see the world, but to search for their father. Samielle had buried all hope for seeing their father again a long time ago, and she did not want to have yet another argument with Alfred about it.
She looked at her mother still sleeping in her bed, and she wanted to wake her up to get something else on her mind. But when she saw her sleeping in that soft moss bed all serene, she changed her mind and went over to the fireplace to make some tea instead.
Elysterians are famous for their tea, made with herbs from the forest. It´s their largest export, especially to the humans of Felgstra and the elves of Reiijdin. The humans preferred a stronger herb, Escarfol, to keep them alert, often used in the morning. The elves preferred a mellowing herb, Yrlysia, which helps them to see the larger meaning of things.
She decided to make Escarfol tea today, she felt like she needed the extra energy before the main event, her first assignment. Samielle hung the kettle over the fire and went over to her mother’s bed to wake her up. “Mom, you got to wake up. My big day is finally here!” she said, and gently gave her mom a hug.
Lucile woke up and looked at her daughter and smiled when she said: “My sweat little girl, are you ready for your big day?”. A serious frown appeared on Samielle´s face, and she slowly nodded to her moms’ question. Samielle gave her mother a cup of tea and went outside to clear her mind.
After being outside for a while she thought she heard something far away, a far away rumble. They lived outside the village and usually just heard sounds from animals or the breeze of the wind. This sound was quite different from anything she heard before. Samielle went back inside to get her mother. Suddenly Alfred stood sweaty in the doorway, she could see the worry in his green eyes, this was not good news.
Alfred shared a look with his sister and calmly said: “We need to go, now.”. Samielle got her bag and filled it with essential items, she then grabbed her bow and arrows. She almost forgot to get her bracelet, the bracelet her father gave her from his travels when she was little. A sliver snake with a gold head, biting its own tail. That was her only memory from her father, and she always kept it with her.
Alfred grabbed his sword, a last remainder of his father, and attached it to his belt. He looked at their mom and told her that it was time to leave. 
The rumbling sound was coming closer and closer, and when they went outside to meet Haldar they saw trees falling not far from their hut. The river had come to wash away it all. The river had become wider and larger by a tenfold, and they could hear all the stones and wood it carried with it.
The valley in the forest that had always provided shelter and safety was about to become a deathtrap. They started running towards the village, and there they found utter chaos. The scouts had spotted the river and reported back to the elders who finally understood their mistake of not believing Alfred. People were screaming and running everywhere, trying to find their children and family. There was not more to do there for Alfred and Samielle, so they headed for the hills on the east side of the valley.
After running for a while, they saw six men in front of them wearing silk robes, they looked tired and they had stopped running. It was the elders, escaping the village without helping their people. Alfred stared at Taigan and said: “You should have listened to me and saved your people!”. Taigan replied: “Let the river take them they would have slowed us down! We can´t keep going for much longer, please help us!”. Alfred got filled with anger, “You will get what you deserve then!” he said and kept on running with his family and Haldar.
The river had now reached the small valley and they could hear it roaring, the south side of the valley collapsed, and the water flooded in crushing the village and the people left there. A deafening crack was heard behind them and when Alfred and Samielle turned around they could no longer see the elders nor their mother and Haldar. The ground behind them had disappeared. Alfred sprinted to the edge where the soil had been teared away by the river and saw his mother and Haldar hanging from a stone ledge.
“Hold on! We will save you!” screamed Alfred while he reached down to pull them up. He got a hold of his mother’s right hand while Samielle was able to grab Haldar´s jacket. Another soaring roar came from the river, a second more powerful wave was about to hit them. “If you want to know more about your father, go to Xerraa! Now run!” Haldar shouted and loosened Samielle´s grip and fell down in the river. Alfred tried to lift his mother up without success, and she screamed: “I will always love you two. Remember to take care of each other” and then letting go of Alfred’s hand. The second wave hit and washed Luciel away.
Alfred and Samielle was now alone, they looked at each other with a devastating glare. The river was growing more powerful by the second and would soon swallow the entire valley. They turned around and ran to the top of the hill and turned to look out over their former home.
There were no trees left, nothing but a vast lake where there used to be an abundance of life. And they could see the river continuing it´s rampage north on past the valley. There was no more they could do.
They both cried out, in deep morning for their mother and Haldar, how could their entire world as they knew it disappear in such a small amount of time. Alfred and Samielle decided to continue east towards the great plains, as there was no more place to call home.
After a while they arrived at the main road leading through the forest and towards the great plains. They talked about what they were going to do next, and they chose to make an encampment at the edge of the forest before it got too dark. They built a simple hut from branches and make a fireplace to keep them warm. Samielle went to hunt so they could have their supper.
That night’s supper was a meager meal, just a couple of rabbits and some bark bread that Samielle had managed to put in her bag before leaving home. When finished eating Alfred stood up and his cloak slipped open, exposing his shredded shirt and the glittering markings on his torso. Samielle looked up and gasped, “What are those markings! And what happened to you?” she whispered. Alfred sat down and told his sister what happened before he came to get them at their hut.
Samielle could not believe what she heard, a shining orb that melted into Alfreds skin and unleashed the very river that killed their mother and all their friends. And that he burned the two guards that tried to stop him from entering the elder council´s hut. How could this even be possible?
Alfred was filled with guilt, he believed this was his fault and that he was the reason that everyone they had ever knew just died. He had no idea what he should do, and how to make this right.
They discussed the whole day and all the events, when they remembered the last words of Haldar. The last thing he told them was to go to Xerraa to find out more about their father. So, they decided Xerraa would be their next destination. It was a seven-day trip to get there from the borders of Galdor, and they would head out at first light.
Alfred and Samielle woke up early the next morning, the sun shined bright trough their improvisational hut and they could hear birds tweeting outside. Alfred need a new shirt as the old one was filled with tears and holes from the day before, he went to search the forest for a rigid plant so he could use its fibers to mend it as well as possible. Samielle went hunting to get them a decent breakfast before embarking on their long journey to Xerraa, she quickly picked up on a trail leading her a small boar. She sneaked up on it and got a perfect shot with her bow, a clean kill.
They met outside their camp an hour later and Alfred mended his shirt as to the best of his ability while his sister cooked the boar. Alfred had come across some blueberries and nuts that went greatly along with their breakfast. After they had eaten they extinguished the fire with water from a nearby creek and filled up their leather flasks.
The road to Xerraa was a long and dangerous road, especially if you had never traveled it before. Luckily Samielle remembered plenty of stories told by travelers and was able to draw up a map in the dirt. The map was not as exact as a map from the Royal Library of Xerraa, but it would be enough for the time being.
She showed her brother where they currently were, at the edge of the Galdor forest, and their road would first go through the great plains until they reached the City of Riders. “the City of Riders?” Alfred asked looking over at his sister. “Yes, a traveler told me that I will know it buy the sound of howling when I get close.” said Samielle smilingly. Howling, Alfred thought to himself, could it be wolves? He never liked wolves, the predators of the forest, killing innocent animals and leaving so much behind. He wanted to know more about it but wouldn´t risk to appear like someone who knew nothing. After all he was her elder brother.
“After the City of Riders, we will go through barren wasteland, I´m told this will be the most dangerous part of the journey. There is a chance we will meet some bandits along that road.” Samielle said with a small smile on her lips. Alfred nodded to confirm that he was listening. “After the wasteland we need to cross the Mourning Mountains, and then we will be able to see Xerraa on a hill surrounded by farmland.” she continued.
Alfred looked at her with a smile and said: “Let´s go then, I´m ready for anything.”. And so their journey began, and they were never to set foot in Galdor again.

 
Chapter II
The Journey to Xerraa

The wind gently caressed the tall grass around Lazarous, he was sitting in the middle of a sea of grass, smelling and feeling his surroundings. He felt the warmth of the moist soil beneath him, and the warm sun above him. What a perfect day he thought to himself, what a perfect day to do some training. He listened and heard the gentle purring he had gotten so used to. Beside him laid a huge black and brown striped Cerlion, a giant creature from the Felidae family. Creatures not familiar with the Great Plains would think of it as a giant muscular tiger, with longer and more agile legs.
The huge animal laid beside Lazarous and looked at him caringly, they had a bond for life. Ever since Lazarous met her and challenged her on the great plains they had been together. Today they were going for a hunt, their target was the rather calm but fast Yarl bird, with its long legs and neck, made for speed. One of Eleentar´s favorite prays, but for now she was enjoying the sun and the gentle breeze blowing through her fur.
With one look at Eleentar, Lazarus signaled that it was time to begin the hunt. Eleentar got up so Lazarus could climb on her saddle. They were ready.
Eleentar silently started to walk towards the smell of pray, and after a brief time they encountered a Yarl´s nest. They both knew that the Yarl bird was extremely territorial in its nature, and that it would defend its nest with any means possible. The most dangerous aspect of the Yarl bird was its strong neck and sharp beak. A single targeted hit could penetrate the scull of most creatures who lived in the great plains.
The Yarl bird was nowhere to be seen, only 6 delicious eggs were to be seen in the nest. These eggs were something of a delicacy and was most commonly eaten raw or cooked. The tribesmen of the great plains often used it to produce an alcoholic beverage called Mootok, a blend of Yarl eggs, fermented milk and honey. The warriors of Lazarus´s tribe often drank this delicious beverage before going to war, as it gave a good energy boost and some extra liquid courage.
Lazarous decided to go in by himself to get a couple of the eggs in his satchel. The eggs were a rare commodity and he could use them to acquire a new saddle and maybe a fahrilium tipped spear. He snuck trough the tall grass closing in on the nest and managed to get one egg in his satchel before he heard a sound behind him. He slowly turned around to find himself standing in front of ha huge Yarl. For a moment he was frozen in both time and space, just staring up at the giant bird. He knew he would not stand a chance alone, and he braced himself for what was to come.
Eleentar got aware of Lazarus´s situation and quickly entered an attack position, normally when stalking a Yarl bird they would be at an advantage. But this time the bird was alert, protecting it´s nest and eggs. Even for Eleentar this would be a hard struggle.
The Yarl bird leaned its head back and got ready to deliver the final blow to Lazarous when Eleentar jumped out of the tall grass to attack it from behind. In a quick tur the Yarl turned around and plunged its razor-sharp beak into Eleentar´s shoulder. Eleentar roared out in pain and fell to the ground. Lazarous took the brief opportunity provided by Eleentar to thrust his spear deep into the chest of the Yarl bird which soon after fell to the ground, dead.
Lazarous rushed over to Eleentar and inspected the deep wound on her left shoulder. He grabbed an ointment from his satchel and applied it to the wound and used long grass to bandage it up. Eleentar was able to get up on her own and looked at Lazarous with a deep and appreciative look. Lazarous turned towards the nest and was able to take three huge eggs from the Yarl´s nest.
The two of them headed back towards their home, and after a while they heard a sound just outside the tall grass close to the main road.
The sound was from Alfred and Samielle, they walked along the road arguing about the best way to approach. They spoke in their native language, which made no sense to Lazarous, he knew that they were from Galdor, he had heard traders speak the same language before. He thought of them as a simple people, who would spend their entire life in a forest without running on the great plains, feeling the wind through their hair? For a while he spectated them from a far, wondering what the odd couple was up to. They did not look like the traders he had seen before. Lazarous saw the blade sticking out from Alfred’s cape and the bow and arrows attached to Samielle´s back. Maybe they were scouts or even warriors? Could it be that the people of Galdor finally were going to take the great plains, expanding their kingdom?
Lazarous was not going to let that happen, he signaled to Eleentar that they should prepare for a fight. Sneaking up behind Alfred and Samielle at the very edge of the road.
Alfred and Samielle was in the middle of a heated discussion about how they should approach the city ahead of them, Alfred wanted to sneak past it in the tall grass while Samielle wanted to approach it head on, curious to meet new creatures.
Samielle had heard a lot about the people living here and the beasts they ride, she remember one of the old travelers telling her about huge striped cats crouching trough the grass of the great plains. She was eager to see these magnificent animals up close.
In the middle of the discussion Samielle heard a sound, a twig breaking in behind them. She turned around and stood face to face with a giant Cerlion. She could see saliva dripping from its long fangs, and it started to snarl at her. Alfred turned around and saw what was about to happen and drew his sword.
Lazarous who were standing behind Eleentar saw Alfred drawing his sword and he stepped to the side of Eleentar pointing his sharp spear at Alfred. “What are two armed Elysterians doing on their road to Cazha Gorri?” he said in the common language while biting his teeth together.
Alfred looked at this giant of a man, he had a rough face, and even long dark hair on his cheeks and chin. Across his face from the start of his hairline and down to his jaw, Alfred could see a deep aged scar.
To Elysterians the Gorris  appeared terrifying, twice as large as themselves, and with skin aged and dried by the sun. The Elysterians appeared much younger due to their everlasting bond with the fortress. Living in a damp environment with little direct sunlight.
Alfred were about to reply when Samielle turned her head and said: “We´re just on our way to Xerraa.” Lazarous shifted his gaze to Samielle and squinted while taking a closer measurement of her. She looked honest enough, but why were they going to Xerraa? “What is your purpose in Xerraa” he said curiously while slightly tilting his head left.
Samielle and Alfred looked at each other, you could see that they were trying to come up with some probable reason. Neither of them wanted to tell this Gorris about what happened back in their village. But maybe he could be of some assistance to them, he looked rather strong and scary.
“We´re looking for something there, it´s nothing you should concern yourself with” Alfred said to him. He had a looming feeling that they should never mention their quest to find their father unless completely necessary.
Eleentar gave Samielle a surprise when she stuck out her huge tongue and licked Samielle across her face and sat down looking at her. She liked the forest girl, she smelled like rain and honey some of Eleentar’s favorite things.
Alfred slowly lowered his sword when he saw this giant catlike creature acting so friendly towards his sister.
